# Gesture-control-vehicle-for-handicap-Gyroscope-or-Bluetooth-based

Wheelchair is a device designed for moving physically challenged people, shifting patients from one place to another. Generally wheel chairs are driven manually with the help of another person or by means of self –propelling. To reduce the complexities for those who don’t have strength to move their chairs by themselves the wheelchairs are automated. Depending on the human instructions in the form of head gestures automation is done. In this wheel chair are automated using head gestures. The memes sensor, which is connected to head, is gayroscope switch. In this project based on the gestures from head. By using a rf switch is used to transmit wireless signals. Gyroscope switch senses the angular movement of the head. Based on the data from either the gyroscope switch the movement of the wheelchair is controlled. Battery is used to provide power supply to move the wheels. An gyroscope switch is used as a sensor which gives an analog signal on its movement in any of the 6 axis directions, that is positive X axis, negative X axis, positive Y axis, negative Y axis, positive Z axis, negative Z axis. In this project we have considered X and Y axis for the direction. Further the input from sensor is given to encoder which sends the data wirelessly through the transmitter, then the data is received at the receiver end and the sensor data is decoded and finally given to microcontroller. Based on data received the from gyroscope switch the microcontroller sends the signal accordingly to relays to move the wheelchair in forward, backward, left, right directions. Also use one of mobile app and use this gyroscope for vehicle operating.

 
